Exercise: Operators in Java. Exercise
objective. Create a program to practice the
operators in Java. At the end we should
observe the following. Create a new
project. Create the operators example project.
We open the NetBeans IDE click on File, and
New Project. Select Java, Java Application
and after that click on next
as a project name we write OperatorsExample, we select the project location
in this case Courses, Java Fundamentals,
Lesson03 and after that we click on
finish. With this we have created the
project, so the project has a desire a
structure. You can see the source
packages and the libraries that we have
in this project. We create a new class
called Operators.java so we right
click on OperatorsExample project, click
on New and after that select Java Class
the class name is OperatorsInJava
the package is operators and we can see
the full path of this class. Finally
click on finish. This is the result of
the created Java class. We will
substitute the code with the following
you can click on the name of the class
to download the code but as we have told
you before you need to write every line
of code that we give you, so first we
write package operators this is the name
of the package
after that we open the class public
class OperatorsInJava, we open the
curly brackets and we write the main
method little by little we will study
every part of this code we will study
the access modifiers, the word static, the
word void, etc, but in this case to
execute this program we need to write
this method as shown. After that we print
to the console Arithmetic Operators, we
do a first operation adding 1+2 and
the result is 3 and assign the result to
a variable called a of type int. After
that we create a variable called b and
it is the result of multiplying a * 4
in this case the result of the variable
b is 12
after that we find a variable called c
in this case this is the result of dividing
b/2 and the result is 6 in
this case the division gives an int
result not float, we will see later how
to get a float result in case is
necessary but in this case the division
gives an int result. We declare another
variable in this case called d and this
variable has the result of c-a and
the result of the variable d is equal to
after that we define a variable called e
and we define the value of the variable
d but in negative so in this case the
variable E has the value of -3 but in
negative. After defining every variable
we log every value into the console so
we print the value of variable a and as
we continue we print every variable the
variable b c d and e. We will put into
practice the module operator. This is the
residue of the revision, so in this case
we can see that we can use the model
operator simply by using a variable
after that the operator module and after
that another operating, so in this case we
are using the expression a after that
the module operator and 2, and the result
is the residue of the division in this
case 1 so we print 1 in the console
the composite operator we can see that
we can add 2 to the variable a but it's
a simplified syntax we will see a lot of
using this operator in Java so we have
to be sure that we understand this
expression this is the same as the
declaring the variable a equals a+2
so the result is 5 also we can use the
negative operator so in this case the
value is B equals B minus 4 and the
result is equals to 8 also we can use
the multiply operator using this
composite operator and in this case the
value of c is equals to 30 we print a
new value of a
the new value of b and new value of c and
we can see in the console every value of
the corresponding operation. Also we have
the increment operator so we have the
variable a we can use the ++
operator and in this case the meaning of
this operator is a=a+1 as we
print the value we get the value of 6
also we have the pre increment and
decrement operator this operator is
increased before using the value that's
why the name pre increment so in this
case the expression first we preincrement
the value of a and assign it to the
variable c so the result is equals c
equals a+1 as we are pre-incrementing the value of a and the result of c is
equal to 7 also we have the operator of
post increment or post decrement and
this operator is increased after using
the value so the next time the variable
b is used is when it's increased so we
can see the expression d equals b ++
and the value of the variable d is
equals to 8 because the variable b is
not incremented because we are using
post increment so the variable b is
incremented the next time this variable
is used so if we print the variable b it
prints 9. b was waiting to increase the
next time it was used if we print the
variable c we get 7 if we print the
variable b we get 8 also we have
relational operators we can use this
expression a is less than b and the
result is that we are checking if 7<9 and the result is equals to
true so when we are using relational
operators we are assigning a value of
type boolean if we print the rest
variable we print the value of true we
also have the ternary operator this
operator is like an if/else we will see
later this structure but in this case we
first have an expression a<b
and if this is true we'll return the
value of a if not we return the value of
b so if 7 is less than 9 this is true so
we assign the first value so the
variable min of type int we assign the
value of a in this case the value of 7
but if this expression were false we
would assigned the value of b instead of
a that's why this is a simplified
expression of if-else structure so we
can use a ternary operator to simplify
and if else. If we print this value we
will get the value of 7. Assignment
operator. We can do many assignments at
one time for example we can assign the
value of 100 to the variable k j and i
so that three variables are equal to 100
and if we print every variable we will
get the value of 100 so these are the
operators that we are putting into
practice
we execute our project we right click
over the class OperatorsInJava.java
Run File and the result is as
follows we already explained every
result but we can check the result to
compare it with every operation and
every operator that we use in your
program. Exercise conclusion with this
exercise we have put into practice some
of the most common operators in Java for
more information about the operators in
Java you can use the following link
in the following exercise we will see
the use of operators precedence.